Neonatology
Creating a Newborn Record
When a baby is born, you create a new record in the Health → Pediatrics → Newborn section. This allows you to store information that is specific to newborns like APGAR scores, reflexes, neonatal signs and symptoms, and congenital diseases.
A Newborn record is linked to a Patient record which is linked to a Party record. So to store a baby in the system you have to create all three records, but this can easily be done from within the Health → Pediatrics → Newborn section:
Create a Newborn record and fill in the DoB (date and time of birth), Sex and Newborn ID fields.
In the Baby field, click on the Search a record icon (or press F2).
In the search dialog, click the New button to create a Patient record.
In the Patient form, click on the Search a record icon near the Person field (or press F2).
In the search dialog, click the New button to create a Party record.
In the Party form, enter the name of baby and fill in the other mandatory fields of the party record, then click the OK button to close the Party form.
The baby's name is automatically filled into the Person field of the Patient record. Simply click the OK button to close the Patient form.
The baby's name is automatically filled into the Baby field of the Newborn record. Simply click the Save button to store the record. At this point, the QR code is generated to be used for the wristband (see below).
Continue to fill in additional information about the newborn as appropriate.
During the procedure described above, the PUID (Person Unique Identification Number) will be generated automatically, and the Date of Birth will be copied from the Newborn record. Please be aware that the Sex field in the Newborn and Person records are not synchronized, so make sure to enter the correct information in both fields.
Please note that the antenatal information and the puerperium remains in the Gynecology and Obstetrics section.
GNU Health - Pediatrics - Newborn
GNU Health - Pediatrics - Perinatal